---
layout: post
title:  "A few ramblings about Pokémon"
subtitle: I've been thinking about this a lot.
image: "/imgs/pokemon.png"
---

Not too long ago I came to the realization that my new Galaxy S4 had the capability to emulate certain handheld game consoles, and that I would be able to play a certain franchise of monster collecting JRPGs on the same device with which I checked Facebook while waiting for the train.

It was that, in combination with me watching a bunch of things like Ni No Kuni, Scrolls, and League of Legends, that made me wonder what it would be like if I made a modern version of pokemon. (Assuming I were actually competent, which I’m not).

So I made a list about what I liked mechanically about Pokemon and what I would do differently, and what I would keep the same. I tried grounding my points in arguments based off of comparisons to other games, to try and stay as real as possible. 

This is that list, basically.

### The PP System 
I like how Pokemon doesn't differentiate between 'regular' and 'special' attacks. It doesn't have MP; Instead it has PP, and the struggle mechanic. The best thing about this system is that if you find yourself constantly low on PP, the solution is to use more Pokemon. Unlike other rpgs, where the solution to running low on MP is either to grind or to spend more money. Pokemon does two really important things to encourage this solution: one by making Ethers and Elixirs (PP restorative items) rare and not available in stores, and two by discouraging item use in battle. Except in the case of high level Potions, using items in a Pokemon battle is rarely strategically sound because they're so costly.

### The Attack/Buff/Switch Tripod
A rock paper scissors mechanic is really common in a lot of games: A beats B beats C beats A. It can be found in Street Fighter, Soul Calibur, and Fire Emblem, and it's in Pokemon in the form of types (who said it had to be 3?). A tripod is something else, and the best example of a tripod that comes to mind is Halo's: shoot/grenade/melee.  Tripods are usually the game's core options. In Halo, at any moment you have the option to shoot, throw a grenade, or melee. It's super important to Halo's strategy that you're able to do any of these things, which is why Halo maps them to separate buttons, unlike many of its FPS predecessors. Pokemon's tripod consists of Attack Buff or Switch. These are the things you can do on a turn by turn basis.

The key thing that defines tripods is that, like their namesakes, removing any one leg causes the game to become destabalized. However, sometimes, games can take advantage of temporary destabalization to create interesting scenarios. In Pokemon for example, there are moves that prevent you from buffing (Taunt), moves that prevent you from attacking (any sleep/freeze move), and moves that prevent (or force) switching (Scary Face, Roar).

Additionally, an important part of how tripods work are game elements that tie different legs together. Thus, in Pokemon there are attacks that affect switching and are affected by switching: pursuit, u-turn, spikes, stealth rock; and likewise there are buffs: baton pass, wish, perish song.

### Multi-dimensional attribute systems
I have to come up with a better name for this. Multi-dimensional attribute systems are a pattern a lot of trading card games use, that Pokemon and some other RPGs apply. The gist of mdas is that each pokemon has multiple traits: stats, attacks, items, abilities, natures, etc. Each trait has a function, and there can be multiple traits with the same function.

Ok that was complicated, so, example. In Pokemon, there are a few ways to not get hit by ground-attacks: you can be flying type, you can have the ability levitate, you can hold the Air Balloon item, or you can use a move called Telekenesis. All of these things serve the same function but exist on different traits of Pokemon.

The point is, that when team building, you have a lot of options for teams that accomplish the same strategy just by moving around your functions to different attributes. 