---
title: "2048 vs Threes: Game Design Deep Dive"
subtitle: A popular subject from a different perspective
layout: post
date: 2014-07-15 13:28
private: true
---

In February of 2014, Asher Vollmer, Greg Wohlwend and Jimmy Hinson released a game called Threes. It was wildly popular, and praised for its simple yet addictive gameplay, and imaginative character and sound design. As most successful mobile games are, it was cloned many times over, in both Android and Apple App Stores, and even on the web.

In March of 2014, Gabrielle Cirulli made a game called 2048. It was a clone of the game 1024, which itself was a clone of Threes. 2048 was also wildly popular, also praised for its simple yet addictive gameplay, and also, as most successful games are, cloned many times over.

Many people have written in great lengths about the story of Threes and 2048: How Asher and Greg spent over a year designing, testing, and refining their game, only to have their thunder stolen by a bevy of clones upon release; How Gabrielle, a 19yo programmer from Italy, released a small project that became a viral hit with hundreds of thousands of players and people creating spin-offs almost weekly. Many argued about which one was better, about who deserved credit, and about whether or not hard work means anything in the end.

I'm not interested in adding to any of those discussions. Instead, I want to talk about game design.

Threes and 2048 may seem very similar, but the small differences in their mechanics do a lot to separate the two in terms of gameplay and strategy. I want to take a really close look into what those differences are and the specific impacts they have on gameplay.

###1s and 2s

In 2048, the lowest block is a 2. 2s combine to make 4s which combine to make 8s and that goes on until 2048. Threes is the same way, except well, with 3s. But Threes has another really important difference: instead of 3s being the lowest block, there are 1s and 2s which cannot combine with themselves, but instead combine with each other to make 3s. 

Since 1s and 2s don't combine with themselves like all the other blocks do, they require special treatment and strategy. A *big* aspect of the strategy of Threes is managing your 1s and 2s, because if you're not careful they can build up and block your other moves. They're also worth no points, so you really want to combine them into 3s whenever possible.

One of the authors of the site [Threesporn](http://threesporn.com/), a blog dedicated to Threes strategy, says it best (emphasis mine):

> The way you make points is by building up your highest number, but the way you avoid dying is by keeping your board clear. __These two goals aren’t always the same.__

###Vectors of Play

Game design theory interlude real quick: One way to analyze a game's systems is by looking at its Vectors of Play. Vectors of Play are basically goals or resources that the player has to manage simultaneously. Take a car race for example. They may seem like they only have one goal (speed), but in reality a racecar driver is balancing many different Vectors at once: speed (trying to win the race), handling (trying not to crash), and the physical limits of his/her own body (stamina, focus, and reflexes), just to name a few. Importantly, a driver may have to sacrifice progress towards one goal in order to fulfill another: e.g. slowing down when turning a corner in order to lessen the risk of crashing. 

Threes is all about managing not just the goal of combining blocks to get the highest number, but also playing such that the arrangement of 1s and 2s allow you to combine them as efficiently as possible. You can't get very far in Threes without having to regularly compromise one goal in order to progress the other.

2048, on the other hand, doesn't have that second Vector. It's purely about positioning of numbers. It is possible to beat the game without ever having to move your numbers into an unfavorable position (unless you're unlucky, but that doesn't count as a Vector because it's not a deliberate decision made towards a different goal).

All that being said, multiple Vectors of Play make games *deeper*, but not necessarily better. One of my favorite games, Super Hexagon, arguably only has one Vector of Play: how fast your reflexes are.

###Sliding

In 2048, pressing left will slide all the blocks on the board as far left as they will go. In Threes, they'll move one space to the left. This seems like a small thing but it makes a big difference. I've heard people say that 2048's sliding is what makes it better than Threes for them, because it feels more satisfying watching blocks slide all the way across the board. But game feel isn't the only thing it affects.

A common element of strategy in both games is to get blocks against walls or in corners: when blocks are against walls their range of motion is limited and therefore they're easier to combine with other blocks because they stay still while you slide blocks into them. Threes's tutorial even contains an instruction to use walls to your advantage. In 2048, achieving this is much easier because whenever you press a button, all the blocks hit the closest wall. You don't have to spend 2 or 3 turns positioning blocks against a wall and therefore you accrue less new blocks and your board doesn't fill up as fast.

2048's sliding also makes it hard to preciesly control individual blocks. But that's okay, since blocks tend to pile up along walls and in corners and combine easily in those positions. In Threes, precise control is necessary, which is why Threes has a few mechanics up its sleeve to help players control the arrangement of their blocks.

###Precognition

The first of these mechanics is the ability to control where new pieces come onto the board. Unlike 2048, new blocks in Threes are placed on the board in a predictable manner. Take a look at a snippet from [2048's source code:](https://github.com/gabrielecirulli/2048/)

{% highlight js %}
// Adds a tile in a random position
GameManager.prototype.addRandomTile = function () {
  if (this.grid.cellsAvailable()) {
    var value = Math.random() < 0.9 ? 2 : 4;
    var tile = new Tile(this.grid.randomAvailableCell(), value);

    this.grid.insertTile(tile);
  }
};
{% endhighlight %}

As you can see, it picks a random value (either 2 or 4) and places it in a random empty cell on the grid. This algorithm is as simple as can be. Threes's is a little more complicated.

In Threes, the next block comes in based on the direction you swipe. So if you swipe up, the new block will come in from the bottom. If you swipe left, it will come in from the right. This gives players a lot of control (but not complete control) over how the board plays out and is essential to both combining numbers and blocking out the arrangement of 1s and 2s.

Because of 2048's sliding, it doesn't need this addition to its algorithm. You don't have to precisely position blocks because they'll end up in corners anyway.

The other important difference in Threes's algorithm is that it tells the player the next block that's coming. At the top of the screen there's an icon that will let the player know that the block coming next will be one of 4 things: a 1, a 2, a 3, or a number higher than 3. Each has to be handled strategically in different ways, which is why Threes gives the player (some) control over where these pieces come on. Often in Threes you will make a move not because of what's on the board, but because of what is about to come on the board.

If you go back to the code snippet above, you'll see that in 2048, a new block has a 90% chance of being a 2 and a 10% chance of being a 4. Threes, instead of using probability to decide what block is coming next, uses a different algorithm.

Threes generates 12 blocks at a time that it keeps hidden from the player: four 1s, four 2s, and four blocks that are 3 or higher. It then shuffles them into a random order, and deals out all 12 one at a time before generating a new set of 12. This guarantees you won't be hit by a huge string of 1s without the 2s to match them with, or vice versa.  

Another tool Threes gives players is the ability to foresee the outcome of a move before executing it. If you swipe without lifting your finger, you can see which blocks will combine and where they will all move to, and if you don't like it, you can move your finger back and try other moves instead. It should be noted that the Xbox version of Threes lacks this feature, [which was criticized heavily in this article.](http://kotaku.com/one-iphone-game-thats-worse-with-an-xbox-controller-1592818896)

###Higher level play

All of these rules come together to form the strategy of both games. In 2048, you build up blocks in corners and try to combine blocks so that numbers build towards whatever corner you're working in. Since you can count on 90% the next block being a 2, you can often predict how many turns it will take to create whatever number you need. Because of its sliding mechanics, often the decision about which direction to swipe on any given turn can be answered by figuring out which one will push numbers towards the desired corner.

In Threes, the question of which direction to swipe on any given turn requires at least 3 considerations: figuring out where to push numbers (a corner is also the best place), figuring out what's coming next and/or in the near future, and figuring out the best place to put those blocks.

In 2048, you're often only thinking about the current state of the board, since you can reliably predict that future blocks will be mostly 2s. In Threes, you often have to think two or three turns ahead, because you only really have a 1/3 chance of guessing what's coming next. The other consequence of this is that Threes makes you think on your feet to deal with situations in which you have long strings of not getting what you want. In 2048 there's no real equivalent to 'not getting what you want', because you get 2s pretty consistently. 

###In the end

These small differences are what make Threes and 2048 vastly different games. 2048, with its forgiving sliding mechanics and bare-bones algorithm, is a game designed to be beaten. Most people, once they beat it, won't come back. It's designed to be consumable, like a movie, or most single player video games.

Threes is designed to be mastered. It's designed to keep you coming back, increasing your skills and strategy over time as you learn the system. Only a handful of people in the world have 'beaten' it. 

If both games were movies, 2048 would be a hit blockbuster summer action flick, while Threes would be an award-winning indie film by a famous director. Two different audiences, two different reasons to play.

Feel free to to argue with me about this on [Twitter](http://twitter.com/@robertvinluan). I'm open to discussion.

