---
published: false
---

"Is it...taro?"

"No, it's Harvest Berry. good guess though."

They gave me the tiniest plastic spoon to eat this ice cream with, a size most places reserve for samples. I take the tiny spoon and scrape off a tiny spoonful with it, pulling it onto my tongue, savoring it like I've seen taste testers do in videos. I make a mouth motion that supposedly airates the ice cream such that it covers all 4000 taste buds and it creates a satisfying smack.

"I can definitely taste something...root-y. I think if you told me this was purple yam flavored I'd believe you."

Victor nods.

"Let's walk."

We make our way through the crowds and I have to look back occasionally to make sure Victor is still tailing me. It was just raining an hour ago, which I had hoped would mean fewer people but that didn't seem to be the case. That and the fact that Seamless was delivering food from this festival for one day only, meaning that there should have at least been a few dozen Williamsburg-ites who opted to forgo joining in the mass migration from the Bedford Ave Subway to the chaotic writhing mass of foodies that inhabit Smorgasburg on Summer Saturday afternoons. But even Seamless's hyper-local marketing stunt didn't seem to cause a noticeable dent in the fair's attendance; if anything the delivery startup's red-shirted liasons and smocked delivery-boys-for-hire were even more noticeable as Victor and I finally found the exit, in front of which they were frantically scrambling to get orders together.

After a few blocks south I stop eating the ice cream and stare at it. "I think I'm allergic to something in here." Victor is unsure how to react, but he manages an "uh oh". I can feel an itch in the back of my throat, and that's the first sign. Squinting at the now melting pile, I make out some consipicous speckles. Could those be nuts? Or am I seeing things? I play back the memory of ordering in my head. No asterisks next to the name of the flavor. How could Harvest Berry have anything but berries in it?

I toss the ice cream in a corner garbage can and assure Victor that all this is just a mild inconvenience. My mouth will get irritated and maybe a bit swollen but I'll go home and take Benadryl and maybe a nap and I should still be able to make it to my friend's birthday party later. "I'm more upset at the fact that the medicine will make me drowsy", I tell him, although I'm saying this more for myself.

I'm showing Victor around the neighborhood because he's moving here in a month, and I point out all the restaurants and bars and stores and the place where I get my hair cut. The itchiness is on my tongue now, and I can feel that my throat is a little tighter when I try to clear my congestion. I wasn't congested a few minutes ago. I have to stop for a tissue but there's nobody at the counter of M Noodle Shop, "which is great because it's open really late", I say to Victor. I'm not sure if he notices me struggling with my tour guide duties while simultaneously dealing with a sudden onslaught of mucus that I'm trying to evict like a delinquent tenant. And like the tenant, wihout tissues the mucus has nowhere to go.

On the corner of Metropolitan and Lorimer I stumble into Bagelsmith and grab napkins from the counter, and then hastily wish Victor goodbye in front of the Subway. At this point the thing that's killing me more than the reaction itself is that I can't be more hospitable to a friend I want to hang out with. 

I'm about 10 minutes from home and I've achieved face falling apart status. Blowing my nose provides only provide temporary relief, and the itchiness has spread to my lips and the roof of my mouth. Not unusual for minor allergic reactons. What's unusual is the sweating. I'd been out in the hot sun walking around but this was more than I could ever remember sweating before; more than hiking around perpetually humid, sparcely air-conditioned Manila; more than the one ill-advised Soul Cycle class I was egged into participating in as a work bonding exercise.

As I pick up my pace towards home (7 minutes!) my chest tightens. This is officially more than a minor allergy. I'd already lost the ability to breathe through my nose 3 or 4 blocks ago, and my panting had become loud and labored. The steady unceasing flow of air in and out of my mouth starts to dry it out. Somewhere in my brain a neuron snaps at my salivary glands telling them to kick production into full gear. I feel a drop of sweat roll down my back.

My whole body is itchy now. When I sweat, this is normal for me: my eczema is easily irritated and I used to like to joke that I was literally allergic to exercising. But this is no normal sweat, no normal itch. I can feel hives on my neck as my fingers dig into it. Every coordinate on the surface of my skin is sounding an alarm.

I wonder if I look as bad on the outside as I feel on the inside. Attempts to catch my reflection prove fruitless as I'm wearing sunglasses. So maybe I still look halfway decent? Briefly I consider how people would react if I popped into a random store, winded and drenched. "Can someone call 911?" That's not necessary though. I take comfort in the fact that at least I still have the ability to dial my own cell phone.

Finally inside my apartment I hurriedly identify three targets: my backpack, my pencil case, and the power button of the air conditioner. Desperately groping inside my bag for my inhaler I pull it out and pump twice and if you could scarf down things other than food that's the word I would have used to describe it. I take a moment to appreciate how quickly albuterol works and how apt the term "rescue inhaler" is. My chest is looser now; I'm no longer wheezing but still breathing heavily. I can feel my heart pounding against my chest from the inside, an unrelenting acceleration.

My pencil case, much to my dismay, does not have Benadryl in it. I had bought a whole box before a trip a few months ago and somehow managed to lose it. I had kept a single pill in here for a while as a cautionary measure because I could always count on having pencils on me, but sometime last year I noticed it was expired so I tossed that pill aside apparently without providing a replacement. I scour the room and when I finally find the Benadryl my fingers are trembling. I fumble at the foil and plastic and when I finally get it open it drops on the floor with a skitter. Picking it up and swallowing it without any water I feel a wave of mental relief wash over my body, although not yet a physical one. Benadryl, unlike my inhaler, will take a while to kick in.

I collapse on the bed. I grab a towl to wipe myself off but any contact with blankets or pillows just causes that area of skin to sweat more, and to itch more. I'm constantly scratching, my hands like firemen responding to a never ending series of five alarm blazes, getting there just in time to put the fire out before getting the call that there are two new diasters; and one in the place where they had just been. My hands start to cramp from the pressure on my muscles to keep my fingers in a clawed position. I take this as a good sign that I should stop.

I'm dizzy now, and nautious. I try throwing up, but I can't, but I keep trying, hoping that the final step to true relief is to completely purge my body from what is from its perspective, poison.

When that fails I lay down on my bed again, my AC doing its job to keep my sheets dry from perspiration, and I pull out my phone and google the ice cream vendor. On the results page my eyes fixate on two words that seem to take up my entire field of vision, though in reality are only a few pixels tall. "Dairy Free". Gears spin, puzzle pieces click together, and in exasperation I let out a long drawn out obscenity. Dairy Free means that it wasn't ice cream with nuts in it; It was practically a big scoop of cold, concentrated nuts with a few berries tossed in. Putting aside my indignation that that kind of information should be on a sign somewhere, and remembering that I really need to rest, I kick into my usual bedtime routine and open Reddit.

The front page today has a thread inquiring about our scariest theories. At the top is a comment that opines as follows: 

Each time we encounter a situation where we may die, we continue on in a parallel universe where something happens that prevents our death. But we die in the original universe. Essentially, our consciousness lives on by transferring itself to a parallel universe where we continue to exist, so we effectively live forever.

I can only read a few more responses before I fall asleep.